

===== PAGE 1 =====
1
nature research  |  reporting summary
October 2018
Corresponding author(s):
Tom Schonberg
Last updated by author(s): Mar 25, 2020
Reporting Summary
Nature Research wishes to improve the reproducibility of the work that we publish. This form provides structure for consistency and transparency 
in reporting. For further information on Nature Research policies, see Authors & Referees and the Editorial Policy Checklist.
Statistics
For all statistical analyses, confirm that the following items are present in the figure legend, table legend, main text, or Methods section.
n/a Confirmed
The exact sample size (n) for each experimental group/condition, given as a discrete number and unit of measurement
A statement on whether measurements were taken from distinct samples or whether the same sample was measured repeatedly
The statistical test(s) used AND whether they are one- or two-sided 
Only common tests should be described solely by name; describe more complex techniques in the Methods section.
A description of all covariates tested
A description of any assumptions or corrections, such as tests of normality and adjustment for multiple comparisons
A full description of the statistical parameters including central tendency (e.g. means) or other basic estimates (e.g. regression coefficient) 
AND variation (e.g. standard deviation) or associated estimates of uncertainty (e.g. confidence intervals)
For null hypothesis testing, the test statistic (e.g. F, t, r) with confidence intervals, effect sizes, degrees of freedom and P value noted 
Give P values as exact values whenever suitable.
For Bayesian analysis, information on the choice of priors and Markov chain Monte Carlo settings
For hierarchical and complex designs, identification of the appropriate level for tests and full reporting of outcomes
Estimates of effect sizes (e.g. Cohen's d, Pearson's r), indicating how they were calculated
Our web collection on statistics for biologists contains articles on many of the points above.
Software and code
Policy information about availability of computer code
Data collection
A full description of the experimental procedures, validations and the fMRI dataset is available in a Data Descriptor (https://
doi.org/10.1038/s41597-019-0113-7). Code used for fMRI data collection are available at https://github.com/rotemb9/
NARPS_scientific_data.
Data analysis
Fully reproducible code for the analyses of the analysis teams' submitted results and statistical maps, as well as the prediction markets, 
are available at DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.3709273. The full list of software and versions used within the code are available in the dockerfile: 
https://github.com/poldrack/narps/blob/master/Dockerfile
For manuscripts utilizing custom algorithms or software that are central to the research but not yet described in published literature, software must be made available to editors/reviewers. 
We strongly encourage code deposition in a community repository (e.g. GitHub). See the Nature Research guidelines for submitting code & software for further information.
Data
Policy information about availability of data
All manuscripts must include a data availability statement. This statement should provide the following information, where applicable: 
- Accession codes, unique identifiers, or web links for publicly available datasets 
- A list of figures that have associated raw data 
- A description of any restrictions on data availability
The fMRI dataset is openly available via OpenNeuro at DOI:10.18112/openneuro.ds001734.v1.0.4. Additional data are included with the analyses code at 
DOI:10.5281/zenodo.3709273


===== PAGE 2 =====
2
nature research  |  reporting summary
October 2018
Field-specific reporting
Please select the one below that is the best fit for your research. If you are not sure, read the appropriate sections before making your selection.
Life sciences
Behavioural & social sciences
 Ecological, evolutionary & environmental sciences
For a reference copy of the document with all sections, see nature.com/documents/nr-reporting-summary-flat.pdf
Behavioural & social sciences study design
All studies must disclose on these points even when the disclosure is negative.
Study description
Quantitative
Research sample
The fMRI dataset included nueroimaging and behavioral data of 108 participants. Demographic information of the participants can be 
found at DOI:10.18112/openneuro.ds001734.v1.0.4. 
70 analysis teams analyzed the dataset. 96 “team members” and 91 “non-team members” signed up to participate in the prediction 
markets. N = 83 “team members” and N = 65 “non-team members” actively participated in the markets. Members of the analysis teams 
and traders in the predictions market were researchers in the field from around the world.
Sampling strategy
Relevant information for the fMRI dataset is available at the Data Descriptor (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-019-0113-7). With regard 
to the number of analysis teams and traders in the prediction markets, we aimed to recruit as many as possible within the time frame.
Data collection
Relevant information for the fMRI dataset is available at the Data Descriptor (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-019-0113-7). Shortly, data 
was collected using MRI scanner and computers.
Timing
The fMRI dataset was collected between November 2017 and May 2018. Analysis teams were recruited and analyzed the data between 
November 2018 and March 2019. The prediction markets were open between May 2nd to May 12th 2019.
Data exclusions
One team was excluded from all analyses since their reported results were not based on a whole-brain analysis as instructed. Of the 
remaining 69 teams, thresholded maps of 65 teams and unthresholded (z / t) maps of 64 teams were included in the analyses (see 
Extended Data Table 3b for detailed reasons for exclusion of the other teams).
Non-participation
12 out of the 82 analysis teams that signed the non-disclosure form and were provided with access to the data did not submit their 
results by the deadline. 13 traders in the "team members" and 26 traders in the "non-team members" prediction markets registered but 
did not actively participate in the prediction markets.
Randomization
fMRI dataset- participants were pseudo-randomly (alternately) assigned  to one of two experimental conditions (Equal Indifference or 
Equal Range). Analysis teams were not allocated into experimental groups.
Reporting for specific materials, systems and methods
We require information from authors about some types of materials, experimental systems and methods used in many studies. Here, indicate whether each material, 
system or method listed is relevant to your study. If you are not sure if a list item applies to your research, read the appropriate section before selecting a response. 
Materials & experimental systems
n/a Involved in the study
Antibodies
Eukaryotic cell lines
Palaeontology
Animals and other organisms
Human research participants
Clinical data
Methods
n/a Involved in the study
ChIP-seq
Flow cytometry
MRI-based neuroimaging
Human research participants
Policy information about studies involving human research participants
Population characteristics
fMRI dataset- demographic information of the participants can be found at DOI:10.18112/openneuro.ds001734.v1.0.4. 
108 participants where included in the dataset: 
54 in the Equal Indifference group (30 females, mean age = 26.06 years, SD age = 3.02 years) 
and 54 in the Equal Range group (30 females, mean age = 25.04 years, SD age = 3.99 years). 
All participants were right-handed, had normal or corrected-to-normal vision and reported no history of 
psychiatric or neurologic diagnoses, or use any medications that would interfere with the experiment.


===== PAGE 3 =====
3
nature research  |  reporting summary
October 2018
Recruitment
Analysis teams were recruited via social media, mainly Twitter and Facebook, as well as during the 2018 annual meeting of The 
Society for Neuroeconomics. Prediction market traders were recruited via social media (mainly Facebook and Twitter) and e-
mails. This recruitment method may increase the chances of specific researchers to participate in an analysis team or in the 
prediction markets, for example researchers that are more active in social media or attended the 2018 meeting of The Society 
for Neuroeconomics. Researchers who advocate for replication attempts and "open science" practices may also be more inclined 
to join such study. However, our results strongly suggest that they were not biased. For example, the fact that several 
hypotheses were only affirmed by roughly 5% of teams, while Hypothesis #5 was affirmed by 84% of teams, suggests that there 
was no overall bias towards either affirmation or rejection of hypotheses. In addition, each of the 70 analysis teams chose to use 
a different analysis pipeline, which suggests evidence against a potential bias in methods used by the specific analysis teams that 
joined the study. With regard to the prediction markets, traders that were exposed to the recruitment ads on social media may 
be biased with regard to their predictions, but as there is a debate in the published literature regarding most of the hypotheses 
included in our study, we do not have a specific reason to assume such bias.
Ethics oversight
MRI data collection was approved by the Helsinki committee at Sheba Tel Hashomer Medical Center and the ethics committee at 
Tel Aviv University, and all participants gave written informed consent (as described in the Scientific Data Descriptor of this 
dataset). The Board for Ethical Questions in Science at the University of Innsbruck approved the data collection in regards of the 
prediction markets, and certified that the project is in correspondence with all requirements of the ethical principles and the 
guidelines of good scientific practice.  The Stanford University IRB determined that the analysis of the submitted team results did 
not meet the definition of human subject research, and thus no further IRB review was required.
Note that full information on the approval of the study protocol must also be provided in the manuscript.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Experimental design
Design type
Task
Design specifications
The fMRI dataset was published in a Data Descriptor (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-019-0113-7)
Behavioral performance measures
The fMRI dataset was published in a Data Descriptor (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-019-0113-7)
Acquisition
Imaging type(s)
functional and structural
Field strength
3T
Sequence & imaging parameters
Imaging data were acquired using a 3 T Siemens Prisma MRI scanner with a 64-channel head coil, at the Strauss Imaging 
Center on the campus of Tel Aviv University. Functional data during the mixed gambles task were acquired using T2*-
weighted echo-planar imaging sequence with multi-band acceleration factor of 4 and parallel imaging factor (iPAT) of 2, 
TR = 1000 ms, TE = 30 ms, flip angle = 68 degrees, field of view (FOV) = 212 × 212 mm, in plane resolution of 2 × 2 mm 30 
degrees off the anterior commissure-posterior commissure line to reduce the frontal signal dropout27, slice thickness 
of 2 mm, 64 slices and a gap of 0.4 mm between slices to cover the entire brain. For each functional run, we acquired 
453 volumes.
Area of acquisition
Whole brain
Diffusion MRI
Used
Not used
Preprocessing
Preprocessing software
Each team performed their own preprocessing. Raw data and data preprocessed with fMRIprep v. 1.1.4 were shared 
with the teams. 
Normalization
Each team performed their own preprocessing. Raw data and data preprocessed with fMRIprep v. 1.1.4 were shared 
with the teams. 
Normalization template
Each team performed their own preprocessing. Raw data and data preprocessed with fMRIprep v. 1.1.4 were shared 
with the teams. 
Noise and artifact removal
Each team performed their own preprocessing. Raw data and data preprocessed with fMRIprep v. 1.1.4 were shared 
with the teams.
Volume censoring
Each team performed their own preprocessing. Raw data and data preprocessed with fMRIprep v. 1.1.4 were shared 
with the teams. 
Statistical modeling & inference
Model type and settings
Each team performed their own analysis.
Effect(s) tested
Each team performed their own analysis.


===== PAGE 4 =====
4
nature research  |  reporting summary
October 2018
Specify type of analysis:
Whole brain
ROI-based
Both
Statistic type for inference
(See Eklund et al. 2016)
Each team performed their own analysis.
Correction
Each team performed their own analysis.
Models & analysis
n/a Involved in the study
Functional and/or effective connectivity
Graph analysis
Multivariate modeling or predictive analysis
