

===== PAGE 1 =====
Nature  |  www.nature.com  |  1
Article
Variability in the analysis of a single 
neuroimaging dataset by many teams
Rotem Botvinik-Nezer, Felix Holzmeister, Colin F. Camerer, Anna Dreber, Juergen Huber, Magnus Johannesson, Michael Kirchler, Roni Iwanir, 
Jeanette A. Mumford, R. Alison Adcock, Paolo Avesani, Blazej M. Baczkowski, Aahana Bajracharya, Leah Bakst, Sheryl Ball, Marco Barilari, 
Nadège Bault, Derek Beaton, Julia Beitner, Roland G. Benoit, Ruud M. W. J. Berkers, Jamil P. Bhanji, Bharat B. Biswal, Sebastian 
Bobadilla-Suarez, Tiago Bortolini, Katherine L. Bottenhorn, Alexander Bowring, Senne Braem, Hayley R. Brooks, Emily G. Brudner, Cristian B. 
Calderon, Julia A. Camilleri, Jaime J. Castrellon, Luca Cecchetti, Edna C. Cieslik, Zachary J. Cole, Olivier Collignon, Robert W. Cox, William A. 
Cunningham, Stefan Czoschke, Kamalaker Dadi, Charles P. Davis, Alberto De Luca, Mauricio R. Delgado, Lysia Demetriou, Jeffrey B. 
Dennison, Xin Di, Erin W. Dickie, Ekaterina Dobryakova, Claire L. Donnat, Juergen Dukart, Niall W. Duncan, Joke Durnez, Amr Eed, Simon B. 
Eickhoff, Andrew Erhart, Laura Fontanesi, G. Matthew Fricke, Shiguang Fu, Adriana Galván, Remi Gau, Sarah Genon, Tristan Glatard, Enrico 
Glerean, Jelle J. Goeman, Sergej A. E. Golowin, Carlos González-García, Krzysztof J. Gorgolewski, Cheryl L. Grady, Mikella A. Green, João F. 
Guassi Moreira, Olivia Guest, Shabnam Hakimi, J. Paul Hamilton, Roeland Hancock, Giacomo Handjaras, Bronson B. Harry, Colin Hawco, Peer 
Herholz, Gabrielle Herman, Stephan Heunis, Felix Hoffstaedter, Jeremy Hogeveen, Susan Holmes, Chuan-Peng Hu, Scott A. Huettel, 
Matthew E. Hughes, Vittorio Iacovella, Alexandru D. Iordan, Peder M. Isager, Ayse I. Isik, Andrew Jahn, Matthew R. Johnson, Tom Johnstone, 
Michael J. E. Joseph, Anthony C. Juliano, Joseph W. Kable, Michalis Kassinopoulos, Cemal Koba, Xiang-Zhen Kong, Timothy R. Koscik, Nuri 
Erkut Kucukboyaci, Brice A. Kuhl, Sebastian Kupek, Angela R. Laird, Claus Lamm, Robert Langner, Nina Lauharatanahirun, Hongmi Lee, Sangil 
Lee, Alexander Leemans, Andrea Leo, Elise Lesage, Flora Li, Monica Y. C. Li, Phui Cheng Lim, Evan N. Lintz, Schuyler W. Liphardt, Annabel B. 
Losecaat Vermeer, Bradley C. Love, Michael L. Mack, Norberto Malpica, Theo Marins, Camille Maumet, Kelsey McDonald, Joseph T. McGuire, 
Helena Melero, Adriana S. Méndez Leal, Benjamin Meyer, Kristin N. Meyer, Glad Mihai, Georgios D. Mitsis, Jorge Moll, Dylan M. Nielson, 
Gustav Nilsonne, Michael P. Notter, Emanuele Olivetti, Adrian I. Onicas, Paolo Papale, Kaustubh R. Patil, Jonathan E. Peelle, Alexandre Pérez, 
Doris Pischedda, Jean-Baptiste Poline, Yanina Prystauka, Shruti Ray, Patricia A. Reuter-Lorenz, Richard C. Reynolds, Emiliano Ricciardi, Jenny 
R. Rieck, Anais M. Rodriguez-Thompson, Anthony Romyn, Taylor Salo, Gregory R. Samanez-Larkin, Emilio Sanz-Morales, Margaret L. 
Schlichting, Douglas H. Schultz, Qiang Shen, Margaret A. Sheridan, Jennifer A. Silvers, Kenny Skagerlund, Alec Smith, David V. Smith, Peter 
Sokol-Hessner, Simon R. Steinkamp, Sarah M. Tashjian, Bertrand Thirion, John N. Thorp, Gustav Tinghög, Loreen Tisdall, Steven H. Tompson, 
Claudio Toro-Serey, Juan Jesus Torre Tresols, Leonardo Tozzi, Vuong Truong, Luca Turella, Anna E. van ‘t Veer, Tom Verguts, Jean M. Vettel, 
Sagana Vijayarajah, Khoi Vo, Matthew B. Wall, Wouter D. Weeda, Susanne Weis, David J. White, David Wisniewski, Alba Xifra-Porxas, Emily A. 
Yearling, Sangsuk Yoon, Rui Yuan, Kenneth S. L. Yuen, Lei Zhang, Xu Zhang, Joshua E. Zosky, Thomas E. Nichols ✉, Russell A. Poldrack ✉ & Tom 
Schonberg ✉
In the format provided by the 
authors and unedited
Supplementary information
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2314-9
Nature  |  www.nature.com/nature


===== PAGE 2 =====
 
1 
Supplementary Information 
Variability in the analysis of a single neuroimaging dataset by many teams 
 
Rotem Botvinik-Nezer, Felix Holzmeister, Colin F. Camerer, Anna Dreber, Juergen Huber, Magnus Johannesson, 
Michael Kirchler, Roni Iwanir, Jeanette A. Mumford, R. Alison Adcock, Paolo Avesani, Blazej M. Baczkowski, 
Aahana Bajracharya, Leah Bakst, Sheryl Ball, Marco Barilari, Nadège Bault, Derek Beaton, Julia Beitner, Roland G. 
Benoit, Ruud M.W.J. Berkers, Jamil P. Bhanji, Bharat B. Biswal, Sebastian Bobadilla-Suarez, Tiago Bortolini, 
Katherine L. Bottenhorn, Alexander Bowring, Senne Braem, Hayley R. Brooks, Emily G. Brudner, Cristian B. 
Calderon, Julia A. Camilleri, Jaime J. Castrellon, Luca Cecchetti, Edna C. Cieslik, Zachary J. Cole, Olivier 
Collignon, Robert W Cox, William A Cunningham, Stefan Czoschke, Kamalaker Dadi, Charles P. Davis, Alberto 
De Luca, Mauricio R. Delgado, Lysia Demetriou, Jeffrey B Dennison, Xin Di, Erin W. Dickie, Ekaterina 
Dobryakova, Claire L. Donnat, Juergen Dukart, Niall W. Duncan, Joke Durnez, Amr Eed, Simon B. Eickhoff, 
Andrew Erhart, Laura Fontanesi, G. Matthew Fricke, Shiguang Fu, Adriana Galván, Remi Gau, Sarah Genon, 
Tristan Glatard, Enrico Glerean, Jelle J. Goeman, Sergej A. E. Golowin, Carlos González-García, Krzysztof J. 
Gorgolewski, Cheryl L. Grady, Mikella A. Green, João F. Guassi Moreira, Olivia Guest, Shabnam Hakimi, J. Paul 
Hamilton, Roeland Hancock, Giacomo Handjaras, Bronson B. Harry, Colin Hawco, Peer Herholz, Gabrielle 
Herman, Stephan Heunis, Felix Hoffstaedter, Jeremy Hogeveen, Susan Holmes, Chuan-Peng Hu, Scott A. Huettel, 
Matthew E. Hughes, Vittorio Iacovella, Alexandru D. Iordan, Peder M. Isager, Ayse I. Isik, Andrew Jahn, Matthew 
R. Johnson, Tom Johnstone, Michael J. E. Joseph, Anthony C. Juliano, Joseph W. Kable, Michalis Kassinopoulos, 
Cemal Koba, Xiang-Zhen Kong, Timothy R Koscik, Nuri Erkut Kucukboyaci, Brice A. Kuhl, Sebastian Kupek, 
Angela R. Laird, Claus Lamm, Robert Langner, Nina Lauharatanahirun, Hongmi Lee, Sangil Lee, Alexander 
Leemans, Andrea Leo, Elise Lesage, Flora Li, Monica Y.C. Li, Phui Cheng Lim, Evan N. Lintz, Schuyler W. 
Liphardt, Annabel B. Losecaat Vermeer, Bradley C. Love, Michael L. Mack, Norberto Malpica, Theo Marins, 
Camille Maumet, Kelsey McDonald, Joseph T. McGuire, Helena Melero, Adriana S. Méndez Leal, Benjamin 
Meyer, Kristin N. Meyer, Glad Mihai, Georgios D Mitsis, Jorge Moll, Dylan M. Nielson, Gustav Nilsonne, Michael 
P. Notter, Emanuele Olivetti, Adrian I. Onicas, Paolo Papale, Kaustubh R. Patil, Jonathan E. Peelle, Alexandre 
Pérez, Doris Pischedda, Jean-Baptiste Poline, Yanina Prystauka, Shruti Ray, Patricia A. Reuter-Lorenz, Richard C 
Reynolds, Emiliano Ricciardi, Jenny R. Rieck, Anais M. Rodriguez-Thompson , Anthony Romyn, Taylor Salo, 
Gregory R. Samanez-Larkin, Emilio Sanz-Morales, Margaret L. Schlichting, Douglas H. Schultz, Qiang Shen, 
Margaret A. Sheridan, Jennifer A. Silvers, Kenny Skagerlund, Alec Smith, David V. Smith, Peter Sokol-Hessner, 
Simon R. Steinkamp, Sarah M. Tashjian, Bertrand Thirion, John N. Thorp, Gustav Tinghög, Loreen Tisdall, Steven 
H. Tompson, Claudio Toro-Serey, Juan Jesus Torre Tresols, Leonardo Tozzi, Vuong Truong, Luca Turella, Anna E. 
van 't Veer, Tom Verguts, Jean M. Vettel, Sagana Vijayarajah, Khoi Vo, Matthew B. Wall, Wouter D. Weeda, 
Susanne Weis, David J. White, David Wisniewski, Alba Xifra-Porxas, Emily A. Yearling, Sangsuk Yoon, Rui 
Yuan, Kenneth S.L. Yuen, Lei Zhang, Xu Zhang, Joshua E. Zosky, Thomas E. Nichols*, Russell A. Poldrack*, Tom 
Schonberg* 
 
* Corresponding author 
 


===== PAGE 3 =====
 
2 
Supplementary Methods and Results 
 
Results of analysis teams 
We performed exploratory analyses to test whether the teams’ confidence (“How confident are 
you about this result?”) and similarity (“How similar do you think your result is to the other 
analysis teams?”) ratings were related to their final reported results. First, we ran a mixed effects 
logistic regression with the binary reported result as the outcome variable and the confidence and 
similarity ratings as predictors (the hypothesis number was also added to the model as a factorial 
fixed effect). We found that higher similarity rating was associated with higher proportion of 
significant results (p < 0.001, delta pseudo-R² = 0.032, mean similarity rating: 7.40 for significant 
results and 6.29 for insignificant results). Confidence ratings were not significantly related to the 
proportion of significant results (p = 0.732, mean confidence rating: 7.59 for significant results 
and 6.93 for insignificant results). Second, we tested the Spearman correlation of the distance of 
the outcome (the proportion of teams that reported a significant result for each hypothesis) from 
0.5 (i.e., how consistent the results were across teams) and the mean confidence rating across 
hypotheses. This correlation was positive (r = 0.69, p = 0.039), indicating that for hypotheses 
where variability of the results across teams was smaller, the teams were more confident in their 
results. The Spearman correlation between the distance of the outcome from 0.5 and the mean 
estimated similarity to other teams was not significant (r = 0.40, p = 0.286). 
 
Variability of thresholded statistical maps 
We performed a coordinate-based meta-analysis using activation likelihood estimation (ALE)30,31 
across teams. This analysis, which imposes additional smoothing, was performed with the 
NIMARE software package [RRID:SCR_017398] using peak locations identified from 
thresholded maps for each team. Correction for multiple tests was applied using false discovery 
rate at the 5% threshold41. The ALE analysis demonstrated convergent patterns of activation for 
all hypotheses. However, while ALE has been shown to be robust to correlated inputs, in the case 
when some studies contribute multiple contrasts42, the present single-study same-data usage goes 
beyond existing research and the extent of any potential biases is unknown. Therefore, this analysis 
provides only a qualitative aggregation and cannot be regarded as a calibrated statistical result due 
to the single-study same-data usage. 


===== PAGE 4 =====
 
3 
 
Variability of unthresholded statistical maps 
Correlations between unthresholded maps were further assessed by modeling the median 
Spearman correlation of each team with the average pattern across teams as a function of analysis 
method using linear regression. Estimated spatial smoothness of the statistical images (averaged 
across hypotheses) was significantly associated with correlation with the mean pattern (p = 0.023, 
delta r² = 0.07), as was the use of movement modeling (p = 0.021, delta r² = 0.08).   
No teams were consistently anticorrelated with the mean pattern across all hypotheses, though 
three teams showed a correlation of r < 0.2 with the mean pattern across hypotheses, whereas 32 
teams showed correlations of r > 0.7 with the mean pattern. 
We further performed an image-based meta-analysis (IBMA) to quantify the evidence for each 
hypothesis across analysis teams, accounting for the lack of independence due to the use of a 
common dataset across teams (Extended Data Figure 3b). While there are different meta-analysis-
inspired approaches that could be taken (e.g. a random effects meta-analysis that penalizes for 
inter-team variation), we sought an approach that would preserve the typical characteristics of the 
teams’ maps. In particular, the meta-analytical statistical map is based on the mean of teams’ 
statistical maps, but is shifted and scaled by global factors so that the mean and variance are equal 
to the original image-wise means and variances averaged over teams. Under a complete null 
hypothesis of no signal anywhere for every team and every voxel, the resulting map can be 
expected to produce nominal standard normal z-scores, and in the presence of signal will reflect a 
consensus of the different results. 
The image-based meta-analysis method is as follows. Let N be the number of teams, μ be the 
(scalar) mean over space of each team’s map, averaged over teams, σ2 likewise the spatial variance 
averaged over teams, and let Q be the N⨉N correlation matrix, computed using all voxels in the 
statistical map. Then let Zik be the z-value for voxel i and team k, and Mi the mean of those N z-
values at voxel i. The variance of Mi is σ21⊤Q1/N2, where 1 is a N-vector of ones. We center and 
standardize Mi, and then rescale and shift to produce a meta-analytical Z-map with mean μ and 
variance σ2: 
Zi = (Mi − μ)/√(σ2 1⊤Q1/N2) ⨉ σ + μ. 
Voxelwise correction for false discovery rate (5% level) was performed using the two-stage linear 
step-up procedure43. 


===== PAGE 5 =====
 
4 
The random-effects variance across unthresholded statistical maps of the different teams was  
estimated using an analog to the tau-squared statistic commonly used to assess heterogeneity in 
meta-analysis. We used the following estimator to account for the interstudy correlation and 
provide an unbiased estimate of the between-team variance, 
𝜏$
%= Yi’RYi / tr(RQ), 
where Yi is the vector of T statistics across teams at a given voxel i, Q is the correlation matrix 
across teams (pooling over all voxels), and R is the centering matrix (R = I - 11⊤/N); this is just 
the usual sample variance except N−1 is replaced by tr(RQ). 
In the case where all results are identical, this statistic should take a value approaching zero. 
Median tau across teams was well above one (range across hypotheses: 1.13-1.85), and 
visualization of voxelwise tau maps (Extended Data Figure 3a) showed much higher variability in 
activated regions, with some voxels showing values greater than 5. As a point of comparison, the 
sampling variability of T-scores over different datasets always has a standard deviation of at least 
1.0, and thus it is notable that inter-team variability on the same dataset is often substantially larger.  
 
 
Prediction markets 
A limitation of the prediction markets part of the study is that the number of observations for each 
set of prediction markets is low, as it equals the number of hypotheses (n = 9) tested by the teams 
with the fMRI dataset. This meant that we had nine prediction market observations for “team 
members” and nine prediction market observations for “non-team members”. These were 
aggregated market observations about predictions of the fraction of teams reporting significant 
results for each hypothesis (bounded between 0 and 1). The low number of observations implied 
that the statistical power to find statistically significant effects was limited, and the test results 
should therefore be interpreted cautiously. 
Traders self-ranked expertise. On average, participants’ self-reported expertise in neuroimaging 
(Likert scale from 1 to 10) was 6.54 (s.d. = 1.93) for the “team members” prediction market and 
5.98 (s.d. = 2.39) for the “non-team members” prediction market, respectively (Welch two-sample 
t-test: t(173.19) = 1.77, p = 0.078). The mean self-reported expertise in decision sciences (Likert 
scale from 1 to 10) was significantly higher for the “non-team members” (mean = 5.13, s.d. = 2.36) 
compared to the “team members” (mean = 4.23, s.d. = 2.46) prediction market (Welch two-sample 


===== PAGE 6 =====
 
5 
t-test: t(184.97) = 2.56, p = 0.011). These tests comparing the value of the variables between the 
two samples were not pre-registered and are included for descriptive purposes.  
Exploratory analyses. Although not stated in the pre-analysis plan, we examined the correlation 
between participants’ final payoffs, as an indicator of market performance and prediction accuracy, 
with participants’ self-reported expertise in neuroimaging and decision sciences. The Spearman 
correlations between payoffs and self-rated expertise turn out to be low in magnitude and 
statistically insignificant for expertise in both neuroimaging (r = 0.06, p = 0.45, n = 148) and 
decision sciences (r = -0.07, p = 0.369, n = 148). This exploratory result also holds if we examine 
Spearman correlations for “team members” and “non-team members” separately (expertise in 
neuroimaging: “non-team members”, r = 0.19, p = 0.141, n = 65; “team-members”, r = -0.12, p = 
0.273, n = 83; expertise in decision sciences: “non-team members”, r = 0.04, p = 0.745, n = 65; 
“team-members”, r = 0.02, p = 0.829, n = 83). 
To explore whether and how market prices (i.e., market’s predictions) aggregate traders’ private 
information over time, we calculated the absolute error of the market price from the fundamental 
value on an hourly basis (average price of all transactions within an hour), resulting in a time series 
of 240 observations (10 days x 24 hours; see Extended Data Figure 5a). We ran two panel 
regressions with 18 cross-sections (i.e., nine hypotheses run for both sets of markets) and 240 time 
observations each. In the model (1), we regressed the absolute error on a binary prediction market 
indicator (team vs. non-team member) and control for linear time effect. The statistically 
significant coefficient for the team membership dummy (𝛽 = −0.22, p < 0.001) indicated that, on 
average, predictions in the “team members” prediction market were closer to the fundamental 
value than aggregate market’s predictions in the “non-team members” prediction market. The 
positive coefficient for the time trend (𝛽 = 4.41 x 10-4, p < 0.001) in the model suggested that 
information aggregation got worse over time, i.e. that prices in both prediction markets tended to 
drift away from the fundamental value as time progressed. Adding the interaction term of the time 
trend and the prediction market indicator variable in model (2) revealed that prediction errors over 
time increased at a significantly higher rate in the “team members” prediction market compared to 
the “non-team members” prediction market. Despite the lower prediction errors in the “team 
members” prediction market, this suggests that information aggregation over time was more 
effective in the “non-team members” prediction market. The results are presented in Extended 
Data Figure 5b.  


===== PAGE 7 =====
 
6 
Concerning individual traders and how their opinions were incorporated in the market’s 
predictions, we carried out two analyses for the “team members” prediction market only. First, 
Spearman correlations between the results their team has reported (a binary outcome) and their 
individual final holdings in the asset for each of the nine hypotheses range from 0.23 to 0.74 (all 
correlations are statistically significant, except for Hypothesis #7: ⍴s = 0.23, p = 0.104; for details, 
see Extended Data Table 5b). In a second analysis, we calculated the percentage of trades in the 
“team members” prediction markets which are consistent with the results their team reported (i.e., 
whether they buy when their team reported a significant result in the hypothesized direction, but 
the market prices reflect “no significant result” and vice versa) for each of the nine hypotheses. 
The fractions of consistent trades ranged from 0.68 to 0.89. One-sample Wilcoxon signed-rank 
tests for a share of 0.5 revealed that the share of consistent trades was significantly higher than 
50% (z-values range from 2.78 to 6.81; p < 0.004 for all tests; see Extended Data Table 5b for 
details). However, it turns out that inconsistent trades are disproportionately larger (in terms of 
volume) than consistent trades, explaining the systematic overvaluation of fundamental values. 
In order to test whether overoptimism of traders in the team prediction market was the result of 
over-representation of teams reporting significant results, we computed the fraction of active 
traders that reported a significant result for each hypothesis. Overall, active traders in the teams 
prediction market were representative with respect to the overall results. The absolute differences 
in the fraction of significant results for active traders compared to all teams are small and vary 
from 0.021 to 0.088. For all hypotheses, the fraction of significant results for active traders lies 
within the 95% confidence intervals associated with the fraction of significant results reported by 
all teams, indicating that the active traders’ information in the market are representative for the 
overall results. Moreover, for all hypotheses but one (Hypothesis #5), the fraction of significant 
results was lower for the active traders compared to all teams. Therefore, overoptimism of the 
traders in the teams prediction market could not be attributed to a biased outcome for these 
researchers.  
Supplementary Discussion 
 
The goal and scope of NARPS 
The main goal of NARPS was to ecologically test the degree of analytical variability in fMRI and 
the effects of this variability on analytical results. Therefore, we tried to mimic as much as possible 


===== PAGE 8 =====
 
7 
the analytical variability that occurs “in the wild”. To this aim, we collected a real sample of a 
value-based decision-making fMRI task, with some complexity that would yield variance in 
reported significant results, similar to what is happening in standard fMRI studies in practice. 
Importantly, the study was not meant to determine the ultimate validity of the teams’ results, which 
is not possible in this case due to the lack of ground truth for the hypothesized effects. The second 
goal of NARPS was to assess the accuracy of predictions made by researchers in the field regarding 
the fraction of teams reporting significant results for each hypothesis. To this aim, we employed 
the novel approach of prediction markets, where participants trade on the outcomes of scientific 
analyses2–5. 
 
Analytical variability and its related factors 
Seventy analysis teams independently analyzed the same fMRI dataset to test the same nine ex-
ante hypotheses which were based on the relevant scientific literature (Extended Data Table 1). 
Exploratory analyses of the relation between reported hypothesis outcomes and a subset of specific 
measurable analytical choices and image features identified several primary sources of analytical 
variability across teams. First, teams differed in the way they modelled the hypotheses (i.e. the 
regressors and contrasts they included in the model). Second, there were multiple different 
software packages used. Third, teams differed in the preprocessing steps applied as well as the 
parameters and techniques used at each preprocessing step. Fourth, teams differed in the threshold 
used to identify significant effects at each voxel in the brain and the method used to correct for 
multiple comparisons. Finally, teams differed in how the anatomical regions of interest (ROIs) 
were defined to determine whether there was a significant effect in each a priori ROI. 
Reported analysis outcomes demonstrated substantial variability in results across analysis teams 
(Figure 1 and Extended Data Table 2). We further found that while the agreement between 
thresholded statistical maps was largely limited to which voxels were not activated (which 
comprised the large majority of voxels), correlations between the unthresholded statistical maps 
across teams were moderate. We performed exploratory analyses to assess the impact of specific 
factors on the variability of results. These analyses pointed out specific factors that significantly 
contributed to the variability. Higher estimated smoothness of the unthresholded statistical map, 
analyzing the data with FSL, and using parametric correction methods were all related to more 
significant results, though the latter two effects were not consistently supported by nonparametric 


===== PAGE 9 =====
 
8 
bootstrap analyses. While the analysis software and correction method used are analytical choices 
directly made by each team, the estimated smoothness is a feature of the map and is affected by 
multiple earlier analytical choices. For example, exploratory analysis showed that modeling head 
movement was related to reduced estimated smoothness. These results imply that variability in 
results could potentially be reduced, for instance by converging to a specific correction method or 
analysis software. However, we do not believe that there is an optimal software or correction 
method across studies and hypotheses, as each one is optimal for different purposes (cf. 44). 
 
Limitations 
It is important to note that our analyses are limited by the number of teams and factors. Although 
we aimed to test the variability that is present in practice, and the cooperation of the neuroimaging 
community was overwhelming, our analyses have limited statistical power due to the skewed 
distributions of hypothesis outcomes (e.g. the low number of teams that reported insignificant 
results for hypotheses 7-9), and for many analytical choices there were too many different choices 
across teams to allow statistical modeling. For example, we did not find significant differences in 
results between analysis teams that chose to use the preprocessed (with fMRIPrep) shared dataset 
versus the teams that chose to use the raw dataset and preprocess the data by themselves. However, 
preprocessing includes many analytical procedures, and the effect of each specific procedure on 
the variability of final results was not directly tested here due to lack of power resulting from the 
multiple available options for each step. We would also note that our use of hierarchical models 
(which pool across hypotheses with varying levels of agreement) helps increase sensitivity overall. 
We propose that only computational simulations could have sufficient power to estimate the 
theoretical contribution of each analytical choice. 
There are several important analytical choices that could not be directly tested here. For example, 
as each hypothesis was related to a specific brain region, each team was required to choose an 
operative definition of the specific hypothesized region (i.e., in order to decide whether a 
significant activation was found within this region or not). Given the exact same thresholded 
statistical map, different teams could potentially reach different conclusions45. Moreover, one of 
the three regions of interest in the current study was the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), 
for which there is no specific agreed-upon anatomical definition. This may have further 
contributed to variability across teams. However, we could not include this analytical choice in the 


===== PAGE 10 =====
 
9 
tested model, as there were too many distinct methods used by the teams (e.g., different atlases, 
Neurosynth33, visual examination, etc.) resulting in the lack of power for testing this effect. 
Another important step we could not directly measure here was the general linear model 
specification. For example, modelling response time (or not) could potentially affect the results; 
the majority of teams (44) did not do so, but there were several different methods used by the 
teams that did, which were different enough that they could not be collapsed into a single class for 
modeling. We did find several model specification errors that resulted in statistical maps that were 
anticorrelated with the majority of teams. While some of these errors might be related to the 
relative complexity of the particular task used here, other errors, such as those involving the 
inclusion of multiple correlated parameters in the model, likely generalize to all tasks. 
The fact that correlated unthresholded statistical maps resulted in substantially different binary 
results across analysis teams suggested that a main source of the variability comes from the final 
stages of analysis: thresholding, correcting for multiple comparisons and anatomical ROI 
specifications. Although the general correction method used (parametric versus nonparametric) 
was found to be related to the final results, exploratory analysis applying a fixed threshold, 
correction method and anatomical ROI specification did not yield qualitatively more similar binary 
results compared to the reported ones (Extended Data Figure 4). Nonetheless, correlated statistical 
maps should not necessarily produce similar binary results when applying the same threshold, 
since the correlation coefficient is not sensitive to overall scaling and thus correlated values could 
differ substantially in magnitude. Use of consistent thresholding and meta-analytical approaches 
provide another view on the heterogeneity of results (Extended Data Figure 4b). Hypotheses 2, 4, 
5 & 6 all had at least 50% of teams showing activation on some consistent thresholding approach 
as well as significant voxels in the image-based meta-analysis (IBMA). 
It should also be noted that our results are conditional on the specific task we chose to use here, 
the mixed gambles task. This task is relatively complex, with multiple parametric modulators that 
could be (and were) modeled in a number of different ways. While this is a relatively representative 
task in the field of value-based decision-making, a simpler task may have resulted in lower 
variance across pipelines (e.g., if there was less flexibility in the specification of the statistical 
model and region definitions, and less possibility of model misspecification).  
 
Prediction markets 


===== PAGE 11 =====
 
10 
We used prediction markets to test the degree to which researchers from the field can predict the 
results. Prediction markets are assumed to aggregate private information distributed among traders, 
and can generate and disseminate a consensus among market participants. While traders in the 
“team members” prediction market had the data and knew their own results, traders from the “non-
team members” reported significantly higher expertise in decision-sciences and are therefore 
assumed to be more familiar with the relevant literature. Nonetheless, we found that both groups 
of traders strongly overestimated the fraction of significant results. These results indicate that 
researchers in the field are over-optimistic with regard to the reproducibility of results across 
analysis teams. Nonetheless, team members predicted the relative plausibility of the hypotheses 
very well. Surprisingly, neither self-rated expertise in neuroimaging nor self-rated expertise in 
decision-sciences were related to better performance in the prediction markets (i.e., to better 
predictions of the results; see Supplementary Methods and Results). 
 
Implications regarding previous findings with the mixed gambles task 
There is a spectrum of concerns regarding the quality of research, ranging from replicability (the 
ability to reproduce a result in a new sample) to computational reproducibility (the ability to 
reproduce a result given data and analysis plans)46. Concerns over replicability across many areas 
of science have led to a number of projects in recent years that attempted to assess the replicability 
of empirical findings across labs3,34,47,48. While such an undertaking would certainly be useful in 
the context of fMRI, the expense of fMRI data collection makes a large-scale replication attempt 
across many studies very unlikely. The present study does not broadly assess the replicability of 
neuroimaging research, but it does provide valuable insights, given that the design of the present 
study overlaps (in the equal indifference group) with the previous study of Tom et al.10. Out of the 
four primary claims made in the initial paper (reflecting significant outcomes on Hypotheses #1, 
#3 and #5, and a null outcome on Hypothesis #7), two were supported by a majority of teams in 
the present study. Moreover, as results largely differed for the equal indifference group (for which 
the design was similar to Tom et al.10) and the equal range group (for which the design was similar 
to De Martino et al.11 and Canessa et al.12), mainly for the negative loss effect in the vmPFC 
(Hypothesis #5 vs. Hypothesis #6), inconsistent findings across these studies may be the result of 
the different designs they used. However, as the present study did not aim to directly test 


===== PAGE 12 =====
 
11 
replicability of fMRI findings, but rather the variability across analysis pipelines with the same 
dataset, the implications are limited and should be interpreted with caution. 
 
General implications and proposed solutions 
In this study, we assessed the degree to which results are reproducible across multiple analysts 
given a single dataset and pre-defined hypotheses. Our findings raise substantial concerns and 
indicate an urgent need for better understanding and controlling the effects of analytical choices 
on reported results. Furthermore, our findings indicate that the further one gets from raw data the 
more divergent the results are. One implication of these findings is that meta-analyses should be 
more effective when using less processed data (i.e. unthresholded statistical maps versus 
thresholded statistical maps or activation coordinates)cf. 49. 
Importantly, the analysis teams who participated in the present study were not incentivized to find 
significant effects, which is thought to drive a number of questionable research practices (e.g., “p-
hacking”7). Furthermore, our results suggest that the teams were not consistently biased towards 
either affirmation or rejection of hypotheses: Several hypotheses were affirmed by roughly 5% of 
teams, while Hypothesis #5 was affirmed by 84% of teams. Thus, the variability in the present 
results more likely reflects actual variability in the standard analytical methods used by the 
participating research groups and their interaction with the data, as well as model specification 
differences and errors present for some teams. It should be noted that the analyses and results 
submitted by the teams were not individually peer reviewed, and we cannot know for certain 
whether and how the peer review process would have affected the results. In addition, in the present 
study all analysis teams used a univariate analysis (GLM) approach, although not explicitly 
instructed to do so (one team performed GLM at the first level within participant analysis, but 
partial least squares correlation at the group level analysis). While this type of analysis has been 
the most frequent one since the advent of fMRI, in recent years many studies have been using 
multivariate pattern analyses50, which are less standardized and are therefore prone to be affected 
by specific analytical choices. An open question is how the present results would generalize to 
those studies in which the researchers are motivated to detect a significant result (due to the 
prevailing bias for publication of significant results). Our results imply substantial researcher 
degrees of freedom resulting in ample scope for p-hacking, as a significant result for each 


===== PAGE 13 =====
 
12 
hypothesis could be reported based on at least four (based on the number of teams that reported a 
significant result for hypotheses 7-9) of the pipelines used in practice by analysis teams.  
We propose that complex datasets should be analyzed using multiple analysis pipelines, preferably 
by more than one research team, and the results compared to ensure concordance across validated 
pipelines. The current study and future ones could point at the main analytical choices that lead to 
variable results. “Multiverse analysis” thus can be focused on those analytical choices to save 
required computational resources and allow a wider use across research groups. Previous studies 
in other fields have suggested different versions of “multiverse” analysis19,20, but these have yet to 
be widely implemented. Meta-analysis methods can be used to draw conclusions based on multiple 
analysis pipelines and/or studies (when unthresholded statistical maps would be shared alongside 
neuroimaging publications). We believe this is a promising and important future direction, given 
the substantial influence of analytical choices on reported results. We also propose that the use of 
well-engineered and well-validated software tools instead of custom solutions, when appropriate, 
can help reduce the presence of errors and suboptimal analysis choices simply by the fact that these 
have been tested by multiple users and often employ more rigorous software engineering practices 
(but, importantly, should not be treated as a “black box”). 
It is important to note, however, that concordance among different analysis pipelines does not 
necessarily imply that the conclusion of those analyses is correct. In the present study we chose to 
collect and distribute real fMRI task data of a somewhat complex value-based decision-making 
task, rather than synthetic data with known effects, in order to achieve the crucial ecological aspect 
of this project (and also to allow the use of prediction markets). Moreover, using synthetic data 
could have potentially introduced bias towards finding a result, as analysis teams would likely 
infer that some activation must be present. Since we collected a real dataset, we do not have a 
“ground truth” regarding the effects (i.e., we do not know for certain whether each hypothesis is 
correct or not). Therefore, the present study provides crucial evidence and insights regarding the 
variability of results across analysis pipelines in practice and its related factors, but not regarding 
the validity of each analytical choice or which analytical choices are the best ones. Future studies 
can use simulated data or null data, where the ground truth is known, to validate analysis 
workflows (e.g.32,51). These studies could potentially identify optimal analysis pipelines, on which 
the “multiverse analysis” could rely. We do not, however, believe that there is a single (or even a 
few) best analysis pipeline across studies52,53. Novel analysis methods are important for scientific 


===== PAGE 14 =====
 
13 
discovery and progress, and different pipelines are optimal for different studies and scientific 
questions. Therefore, we suggest to focus on “multiverse analysis”, while aggregating evidence 
across studies by sharing unthresholded statistical maps, analysis code and design matrices, and 
applying meta-analysis approaches. The discussed challenges and potential solutions are relevant 
far beyond neuroimaging, to any scientific field where the data are complex and there are multiple 
acceptable analysis workflows. 
 
Supplementary References 
41. Laird, A. R. et al. ALE meta-analysis: Controlling the false discovery rate and performing 
statistical contrasts. Hum. Brain Mapp. 25, 155–164 (2005). 
42. Turkeltaub, P. E. et al. Minimizing within-experiment and within-group effects in Activation 
Likelihood Estimation meta-analyses. Hum. Brain Mapp. 33, 1–13 (2012). 
43. Benjamini, Y., Krieger, A. M. & Yekutieli, D. Adaptive linear step-up procedures that 
control the false discovery rate. Biometrika 93, 491–507 (2006). 
44. Churchill, N. W. et al. Optimizing preprocessing and analysis pipelines for single-subject 
fMRI. I. Standard temporal motion and physiological noise correction methods. Human 
Brain Mapping vol. 33 609–627 (2012). 
45. Hong, Y. W., Yoo, Y., Han, J., Wager, T. D. & Woo, C. W. False-positive neuroimaging: 
Undisclosed flexibility in testing spatial hypotheses allows presenting anything as a 
replicated finding. Neuroimage 195, 384–395 (2019). 
46. Peng, R. D. Reproducible research in computational science. Science 334, 1226–1227 
(2011). 
47. Klein, R. A. et al. Investigating variation in replicability: A ‘many labs’ replication project. 
Soc. Psychol. 45, 142–152 (2014). 
48. Klein, R. A. et al. Many Labs 2: Investigating Variation in Replicability Across Samples and 
Settings. Advances in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science 1, 443–490 (2018). 
49. Salimi-Khorshidi, G., Smith, S. M., Keltner, J. R., Wager, T. D. & Nichols, T. E. Meta-
analysis of neuroimaging data: a comparison of image-based and coordinate-based pooling of 
studies. Neuroimage 45, 810–823 (2009). 


===== PAGE 15 =====
 
14 
50. Woolgar, A., Jackson, J. & Duncan, J. Coding of Visual, Auditory, Rule, and Response 
Information in the Brain: 10 Years of Multivoxel Pattern Analysis. J. Cogn. Neurosci. 28, 
1433–1454 (2016). 
51. Welvaert, M., Durnez, J., Moerkerke, B., Verdoolaege, G. & Rosseel, Y. neuRosim : an R 
package for generating fMRI data. J. Stat. Softw. 44, 1–18 (2011). 
52. Poldrack, R. A. et al. Scanning the horizon: towards transparent and reproducible 
neuroimaging research. Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 18, 115–126 (2017). 
53. Churchill, N. W. et al. Optimizing preprocessing and analysis pipelines for single-subject 
fMRI: 2. Interactions with ICA, PCA, task contrast and inter-subject heterogeneity. PLoS 
One 7, e31147 (2012). 
